# Home-automation-system

## Abstract
- In order to help maintain comfortable living conditions within a home, home monitoring and automation are utilized. The standards of human's comfort in homes can be categorized into several types. Among these categories, the most significant ones are the thermal comfort, which is related to temperature and humidity, followed by the visual comfort, related to colors and light, and hygienic comfort, associated with air quality. A system can be set to monitor these parameters to help maintain them within an acceptable range. 
- Additionally, making the house smart is to allow for intelligent automatic executing of several commands after analyzing the collected data. Automation can be accomplished by using the Internet of Things (IoT). This gives the inhabitant accesses to certain data in the house and the ability to control some parameters remotely.
- This project is based on Voice Controlled Home Automation System. The proposed design uses Bolt IoT Cloud platform and IFTTT Technology. All the appliances will be connected to ESP8266 micro-controller board which allows real-time processing from the IFTTT Technology.

## About Project
- The aim of this Project was to propose a cost effective voice controlled (Google Assistant) home automation controlling general appliances found in one’s home. The approach discussed in the Project was successful as GACHA’s (Google Assistant Controlled Home Automation) design was successfully implemented. This system is highly reliable and efficient for the aged people and differently disabled person on a wheel chair who cannot reach the switch for the switching ON/OFF the device and are dependent on others. 
- The future scope for GACHA can be huge. There are many factors to improve on to make GACHA more powerful, intelligent, scalable, and to become better overall for home automation. For example, controlling the speed of the fan, more number of devices can be integrated, like a coffee machine, air conditioner etc. Well, no system is ever perfect. It always has a scope for improvement. One just needs to put on a thinking cap and try and make the system more better.
